[THEME MUSIC]
As children, many of us were
drawn to stories and films
about animals who could talk
to us and be our best friends.
Some kids took it
a little further.
As a little girl, Linda Bender
rescued animals of all sorts,
and developed the ability to
understand their thoughts.
It's no surprise she chose the
field of veterinary medicine
as her profession.
This has taken her to
wild animal refuges
around the world,
and into the minds
of our companion dogs and cats.
She's with us today to share her
unique perspective on the magic
of living alongside animals.
I'm so happy.
I've been dying to talk to you,
because I too love animals.
Yes.
And you have something
extraordinary to share with us.
Thank you.
And we're going to get into
your life as a little girl.
This has been going on
almost since you were born.
Yes.
But first, can I share
something with you--
Absolutely.
---that just happened?
Yes.
Just before I came
here to the studio,
I was talking to a woman.
And she said, so
what's your day like?
I said, oh, I'm
interviewing Linda Bender.
And she said, oh my.
I have to share
this story with you.
And she told me the
story of a horse.
She had always wanted a horse.
And what happened
was she had this--
we can see this horse here.
This course came to her.
And we won't show the
next photo for just a sec.
What happened was three years
before this horse came to her,
she wanted one so badly that
she had some glasswork done.
And she put it in her office.
It had the sun.
It had her as a
little light fairy,
and her beautiful
horse underneath it,
hoping that horse would
come to her one day.
Well, the horse did come to her.
Now let's take-- and by
a very strange event.
Her boss saw this
horse in a pasture,
bought it for no reason.
This is the stained
glass she had
done three years before, which
is identical to that horse.
And when you see it
in person, you can
see the color is even better.
That horse was given to her as
a gift by her boss, who said,
I just saw this
horse and bought it.
I had no idea why.
And he said, I was going
to sell it, but hey,
do you want a horse?
Gave her this horse,
which looked identical.
[INAUDIBLE].
And the man said, that
horse seemed to speak to me.
He wanted to come to you.
And that's kind of a
set-up for what we're
going to be talking about.
Absolutely.
Thank you for sharing that.
[LAUGHS]
I thought it was so beautiful.
She's just still
stunned to the bones
that this horse found her--
-Yes.
---and had to go
through a lot of strange
people and circumstance
to find his way to her.
Yes.
And so let's start
now with you and how
you came to be the one that
could speak to those horses,
for example, when you
were a little girl.
Well, just let me
say the universe
does work in strange ways.
Indeed.
Many ways we have
yet to, and probably
will never, understand.
But for me, about
a year or so ago,
I was giving a lecture
on the sacred connection
between humans and animals.
And a woman came up to
me afterward and asked,
I love your stories, Linda.
Tell me, when did
this connection
begin with you and the animals?
What was it like before?
And I thought for a minute,
and replied, I don't remember.
I simply could not
remember a time before.
So later that evening, and
actually the next few days,
I thought about that.
And what came to mind
finally was a time
when I was a little girl.
I'm guessing six, seven.
And I used to play
in my backyard.
It was a suburb of New Jersey.
And there were wonderful birds
and wildlife in the backyard,
in an apple orchard past that.
And I was coming back
from the orchard one day.
And as I walked, I heard
a particularly crazy crowd
of jays, and that
peculiar call they have.
Yes.
The call, the call.
Very aggressive.
Something's up here.
Yes.
And I, of course,
went straight over.
And there on the ground was
just a little ball of fluff.
I thought, what is that?
So I went over closer to look.
And there were about six or
seven little balls of fluff.
And upon careful inspection,
there were the most
beautiful little tiny babies.
They were nestlings
that had prematurely
fallen out of the nest.
Mom and dad, and all
the uncles and aunts,
were circling, goading me away.
But I persevered, reached
down, scooped them
up just as I was dive bombed on
the head, ran to the back door,
where my father met me.
And he gathered a box.
We put these little
babies in there.
They looked up at me,
and their eyes stared,
their beaks were open, they
were screaming for life.
And I can still
remember the connection.
My eyes met their eyes.
Those tiny little eyes.
And you never stopped.
And that connection
never stopped.
Well, here we see this.
I just love this.
This was a few years later.
And I might mention
that over the years,
they no longer
pecked me ever again.
They recognized me.
Generation after generation
in the corvid family,
like crows, animals recognize.
They knew me as a
helper, not a foe.
So they used to let me
do this sort of thing.
Well, look at this.
They're all sitting
on this little stick.
They're not afraid
of you at all.
And you're feeding them again.
It looks like they got the boot
or fell out of the nest early.
You're feeding them
with a little dropper.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
And this is essentially
how you spent your youth.
Yes.
Very much so.
Well, it was certainly
no surprise that you
were going to become a vet.
[LAUGHS]
So tell us about, as you
went through life, you also
must have had house
pets in your youth.
Yes.
And did you start connecting
with them in that way as well?
I did.
My earlier childhood
stories were mostly outside.
I had a mother who had a
dog, a young dog-- a poodle.
And I loved that little poodle,
but I always wanted a cat.
And my mom was allergic, so
I never got the cat I wanted.
But it wasn't until my
20's that I actually
got my first cat, who I found
with a little Nestle's milk
can on his head.
Actually, animals
usually find me.
He had a little
can on his head?
can on his head.
And he came--
He'd been trying to
lick it and it got stuck?
Yes, stuck on his head.
So of course I
picked him up, got
him out of that predicament,
and it was, again, instant love.
So we were together
for 20 years.
And that was my cat Whimsy.
REGINA MEREDITH: Whimsy, yes.
We're going to talk about
Whimsy in a little bit again.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
-And, OK.
So as you graduated from
veterinarian school,
did you have a different kind
of connection with the animals
when you were going
through your training?
LINDA BENDER: Yes, and it was--
Did you see the whole
process of what you were
learning in a different way?
It was very difficult for me.
And even before vet
school, I remember
my first encounter at a
vet clinic was oh, come on.
Yes, volunteer.
Come in here.
Just help hold this dog.
And of course, I ran over, and
I was going to save and rescue
my first animal in the clinic.
And unfortunately,
it was a euthanasia.
So the dog--
REGINA MEREDITH: Whoa.
What a horrible emotional shock.
And it was a big
emotional shock,
but it was my first lesson that
this is not going to be all
rosy, and that there
is a side of veterinary
medicine that requires a
certain amount of courage--
Absolutely.
---to persevere.
And other stories, many of them.
Many others.
Well, before we go into
the veterinary clinic,
and before we
start talking about
our fuzzy little companions,
your work took you
out with large game animals.
And you had a couple of
really mystical experiences.
But let's talk about who
they are on this planet,
and what they're
looking to from us.
As you told me off camera, we're
encroaching on their territory.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
We're damaging the
environment of the planet.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
They have very specific
ideas, thoughts,
and feelings about all this.
-They do.
And so why don't you
just start telling us
about some of your wild
refuge experiences?
Well, I've had quite a
bit of that experience.
And back in the day, I was
living in Southeast Asia.
And I did a lot of
work with animals
who were victims of
the animal trafficking
trade. i tried to rehabilitate
them, keep them alive.
Rehabilitate them.
And so I was able to see all
kinds of amazing animals.
Tigers, leopards, gorillas,
rare, rare psittacine parrots.
And the problem
that I encountered
was the ability
to continue doing
my work knowing that
there was such cruelty
and ignorance in the world.
It was difficult time.
I almost gave up one or
two times-- probably more
than one or two times.
But my connection and my
conviction to the animals
became deeper and deeper
through this process.
And, you know, we are now 7
billion people on the planet.
And so for reasons
of loss of habitat,
pollution, and hunting,
we're losing so many of our--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
---our animals, especially
the large land mammals.
The elephants that
are meant to be
walking the longitudinal
meridians in Africa
are now being cut off.
They can't do that anymore.
A small example of
how that severely
affects all animals-- it isn't
only that the elephants suffer.
One enormous footprint
of an elephant
creates an entire ecosystem
for other small species.
And in the rain, when the rains
dry, and in the dry periods,
that creates an entire water
well for other small birds,
other creatures.
So that's one example.
There's so many.
-Yes.
And tell us about
another, maybe a couple
of your kind of heart-to-heart,
soul-to-soul experiences
you had with some of
these wild animals.
I would love to
hear some of that,
and what they were
trying to convey to you.
Well, what I believe
is happening in wildlife
is that because we
are so many humans,
they no longer live in
blissful ignorance of us.
They are now being forced
to connect with us in ways
that they've never done before.
So to those people
who are interested,
who open from their
hearts, I would describe it
as if animals-- all
animals, companion
animals and wildlife-- offer
us an invitation to connect.
And if we choose to look at
that invitation and respond,
they are then willing to
come to us at whatever level
we are able to understand,
and help share their concerns,
and their lives,
and their cultures.
For me, all life is soul.
All life is connected, as
we're learning now in physics,
in quantum physics.
My son is an
aspiring physicists,
so I always confirm
these things with him.
Yes.
And I got the nod.
Yes, mom.
We are all connected.
But it is, to me,
wonderful confirmation
of what I understood as a
child-- which does remind me
of a time when I was
a child and I was
looking out my bedroom window.
And there was a beautiful
robin in a branch.
And I just enjoyed listening
to that robin sing,
and admiring its beautiful nest.
Robins are just
awesome nest builders.
They're the best.
They're so precise in
their nest building.
-They're the best.
-Yes, they're experts.
As a matter of
fact, a female robin
will choose her mate by what
he brings to her to offer
his nest building capabilities.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, the sticks.
And if she doesn't like the
sticks, he's out of there.
OK?
But anyway, I was watching
this particular robin.
And of course, as a child,
I knew none of this,
but I believe to
this day that it
was a type of oneness experience
that I had with this robin.
Again, there was an invitation
to join, to come closer,
to connect through our hearts.
And that invitation opened
to a deeper soul connection--
to the recognition that
this is a soul, I am a soul,
but we are really one.
And we are joyously together
in this cosmic oneness.
And I remember-- I actually
remember feeling connected.
Feeling what the
vedics, the sages,
describe as loss of where my
body ends and the trees begin,
or where the body of the
bird began and ended.
And it was a
beautiful experience.
And it just happened naturally
through the connection
of a heart and soul.
So it's continued
through the wildlife,
and it continues today.
What are some of
the wildlife cultures
that you have a particular
fascination with
or respect for as cultures go?
Oh gosh, so many.
Well, all we have to do
is look out our window
to the common squirrel.
Oh, yes.
I love squirrels.
I used to hand feed them.
I do too.
Squirrels are-- you know some
people consider them pets.
They are absolutely fabulous.
They live life on the edge--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes, they do.
---because they are,
as opposed to robins,
who are meticulous
nest builders, they are
fancy free about their nests.
You know, if something
goes wrong and whatever,
they abandon their home
and create another one.
But they also can fall great
distances and not get hurt.
Their tails are a
type of parachute.
So they become ever more daring,
I think, in their escapades.
So although it's devastating
when a squirrel runs out
in the road and
gets hurt or killed,
you know, that's
what squirrels do.
And so it's our job to
drive a little more slowly.
But I adore squirrels.
So they really
bring to the table
a sense of adventure
and wild daring.
Wildness.
Steering.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
-Yes.
Yes.
-[INAUDIBLE].
And can you imagine
what you would be
like if you could jump 50 feet?
Yeah, no kidding.
You just want to do it.
You'd have to.
-Yeah.
So that's one
interesting account.
That's interesting.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
What about rabbits?
I mean, everyone says,
what are they thinking?
Same as with squirrels.
What are they thinking?
Why do they wait until the
car's right there to dart
right out in front of you?
LINDA BENDER: Right.
Yeah.
-What's up with that?
Well, one thing that I
feel very strongly about,
and we do need to remember,
is that animals are living
in their natural habitat.
REGINA MEREDITH: That's right.
And we're driving through it.
Be they rabbits, squirrels,
deer, whatever, they are simply
living in their habitats.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
We have cut our roads
through their habitats.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
So rather than thinking we
have the right of way, actually,
they do.
REGINA MEREDITH: Sure.
So all creatures
are not expecting
us to put ourselves first.
You know, I can
understand that.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
But if the car is moving along,
why choose that really daring
moment to go, in a sense?
You know, I'd never--
you'd think if there's
an instinct for survival,
if you see a vehicle moving
towards you, there would be a
freeze or something, instead
of, oh, right, green light.
Let's go.
Well, in some
species, they don't see
particularly well, you know?
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah,
that's a good point.
And certain species
are better at vision.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
Others are better at sound.
Others are, you know--
Well, you would think with
rabbits, it must be sound.
LINDA BENDER: Well--
But how do they
see [INAUDIBLE]?
I actually cannot
speak on behalf of--
Of rabbits.
---why that rabbit
would jump out.
Yes, I know.
It's just a common
phenomena everybody
scratches their head over.
-Well, it is.
-Sure.
It is.
And maybe they
don't see that well.
You're right.
Maybe they feel the
rumbling on the ground,
and it excites them to movement
or something like that.
So maybe we could
get feedback on that.
Yeah, maybe we could
connect with them
and find out what's up.
LINDA BENDER: Yeah.
Now, you also worked with some
villagers around the world,
having to do with anti-poaching.
And this is a real-- this is a
very sensitive and very painful
kind of issue.
And can you talk to us a
little bit about what goes on--
Oh yes.
---and how we might
be, even inadvertently,
participating in it or
supporting it, if not directly?
Yes, it is
difficult. And when I
think of Africa and the
problems you speak of,
I tend to take a deep breath.
And it can be overwhelming.
But my deep philosophy in all
this is the old story of you
cannot save everything,
but you can certainly save
what walks across your path.
That is my mantra.
That is what I do.
And--
Tell us the nature, in
this day and age, of what
the poaching world is like.
I mean, because
we're sitting safely
tucked away from all of it.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
What is still being poached?
What is being taken
to extinction?
LINDA BENDER: Well,
one thing Americans
need to remember is that
although we're not--
we tend to feel just
distracted from it because,
oh, well, it isn't our problem.
We're not poaching.
But still-- it's
hard to believe,
but still, this country
is one of the biggest
markets for poached goods.
What kind of poached
goods are we talking about?
Open the pages of your
latest fashion magazines.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Well, certainly.
Flip through the pages.
You'll see that
I'm talking about.
And what about big game?
I mean, is that scene
still going on, or--
It's better.
It's not good.
But poaching in Africa, for
example, one thing we really
need to be mindful of is that
elephants, their body parts
are still being taken for ivory.
And rhinos--
actually, the poaching
of elephants and rhinos
is more now than ever.
And it's become
more sophisticated.
Poaching of--
-How so?
---those animals is probably
second only to the drug
culture in the world.
-Seriously?
It's that bad?
-Yes.
And in Asia, there's still
the old mistaken belief
that there are medicinal
qualities to those body parts.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
Right.
So education,
education, education.
Yes.
And you have spent time-- we
touched on it a moment ago.
You've spent time
with elephants.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
I adore elephants.
Can you tell us a little
bit about their culture
and their world in India
and Southeast Asia, what
the greatest
threats to them are,
and some of the beauty
of that culture?
Oh, elephants.
I do dearly love elephants.
REGINA MEREDITH: And
you've been with elephants.
LINDA BENDER: I've
been with elephants.
I have had a few very deep
connections with elephants.
And the number one
problem with poaching--
and again, they're
always the same issues.
It's loss of habitat,
because of humans
encroaching on that territory.
And then there's the
farming of the humans.
So the elephants have fewer
and fewer places to go.
And they must roam.
They cannot be enclosed.
There are people
like Peter Beard,
for example, who, for many,
many years, was living in Africa
and documented the-- it's
a fascinating story, how
the first white people
came to East Africa.
And how that the
populations of wildlife
was just so vast that no
one could ever even imagine
there would ever be a
reduction in the abundance
of all wildlife.
And then some of
those early hunters
back in the time of
Roosevelt and those people,
they actually saw a decline.
And they became the first people
to set up game parks to protect
the animals and the elephants.
And they learned over
the years what worked
and what didn't work.
And what they for certain
learned is you cannot
enclose these wild beings.
And elephants need to roam.
Elephants need to
walk those meridians.
Tell us about that walking
of the longitudinal meridians
you spoke of earlier.
-Right.
That is the sacred
meridians, as well
as-- I think we're
going to hopefully
talk later about the lions--
REGINA MEREDITH:
Yes, we are going to.
---in South Africa.
The shaman, the African
shaman, the Zulu people,
and all the indigenous
cultures speak of these animals
as sacred beings who are the
first beings of the land,
and must be respected.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Unfortunately, that's
now coming into conflict.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes, it is.
And elephants and all
the other wild creatures
are trying to learn
about us, trying to,
if possible, understand.
And they see the suffering
that we go through,
because the suffering
we inflict on them,
they also see happening
in our cultures.
-Yes.
-You know?
And you know the
great Credo Mutwa.
LINDA BENDER: I do.
Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: And
I was so surprised
to learn that just
before the camera started
running, as a matter of fact.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: Michael
Telligner, David Eich.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
REGINA MEREDITH: These are
great, great supporters
of Credo Mutwa's work as well.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
But your connection
with him is specifically
having to do with the sacredness
of the animal kingdom.
Yes.
And I am so very
grateful, because I
was able to spend a week
with Credo at his home
and learn from him, and
hear his lifelong stories.
He's about 94 now.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
Except if there are young
women around, he says he's 89.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE].
But he's a wonderful
source of shamanic wisdom.
Well, he's the record keeper
for the Zulu tradition right?
He truly is.
But he's also the keeper of
the tragedy and the pain--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
---of the animals
and the people.
And so his stories are
sometimes heartbreaking.
But I went there specifically
to deepen my sacred connection.
And I knew that I could learn
more, and more, and more.
And that he--
And what did you
take away from there
that was the most profound?
He was so inspiring.
And he said all
of us have a gift.
All of us have our unique
gift, be it helping animals
or helping the poor with AIDS.
He was particularly
active in helping AIDS.
We must take that
gift very seriously.
And that becomes our mission.
That becomes our life.
We become the warriors,
and a warrior never, ever,
ever deviates from that path.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
We go on, and we go on.
And we go on not because
we're winning a battle,
but because we
cannot do otherwise.
That's beautiful.
Yeah.
I wanted to ask you a little
bit ago if you wouldn't mind
sharing a couple of
those really deep,
connective experiences
you had with the elephants
you were referring to.
Yes, my elephants.
There was one
particular elephant
that I visited who
was with one other--
there were two male elephants.
This particular elephant
was about 20 years old,
and there was a
younger one with him.
And he recognized me on
a very nonverbal level.
And I must add here that
my connections with animals
never required words.
The entire time
I was growing up,
through all of my work,
my veterinary work,
rarely did I ever
need to assign words.
That only came later, when I had
an encounter, also in Africa,
with some buffalo.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
But I did receive amazing
insight about elephants
and their capacity
to share wisdom,
because elephants really
are the symbol of wisdom.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Wisdom keepers, yes.
LINDA BENDER: The
wisdom keepers,
and the ancient traditions.
And they are-- what these
elephants really explained
to me nonverbally was
how integrated they are,
and how connected they are
to the other animal cultures
that they live and
share the land with.
And they shared other tidbits
about some of those cultures.
For example, be careful
to love the birds.
And then they would talk about
what they loved about birds.
How the lions loved the birds
and the songs of the birds.
How we must be mindful of the
giraffe, because the giraffe
are the tall beings.
And they watch out and scan
for other predator animals.
How the giraffe also
connect to the elephants.
And the elephants
are the matriarchs,
and the females are always
careful to protect their young.
Their young stick with the
mother for a good four--
They're very good mothers.
---over four years, they
nurse, which is part
of the problem with poaching.
If a mom is poached, the infant
will also die unless it's
over the age of nursing.
So they shared these
loving sacred stories
of the connections of these
different animal cultures
to me.
Yes.
What a privilege for you.
LINDA BENDER: It was.
It still is.
And thank you for sharing.
Yes.
And thank you for
sharing that with us.
LINDA BENDER: Thank you.
REGINA MEREDITH: I
mean, I'm with you,
if we can never get out
among them and be with them.
And I've only done this
one time in Southeast Asia
with elephants.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
And I was-- we were both,
my husband and I-- it was
a life-altering experience--
LINDA BENDER: It is.
---to be among elephants.
Yes.
Aside from our
connection with elephants,
there was a video
that was-- a film
that was made a while back.
And again, this is about the
deep, powerful connection
between humans and wildlife.
And I know you're
familiar with it.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
And we're going to
show a short clip of it.
It is the reunion
between man and lion.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
And so let's take a
look at that video.
These magnificent creatures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
MALE SPEAKER 1 : We weren't
sure of our reception this time.
We always thought
anything could happen.
It was very dangerous.
It was the wilds of Africa.
NARRATOR: After an anxious
day in the compound,
Ace and John walked onto
Christian's territory.
George might be
welcome here, but Ace
and John were almost strangers.
They hadn't seen
Christian in a year.
If he perceived them
as unwelcome guests,
there could be trouble.
MALE SPEAKER 1 : George
appeared on the top of the hill,
I suppose about 100 meters
away from us, with Christian.
Christian ambled down
another 10 or 15 meters,
and had a very long,
hard look at us.
You could just see him
assessing what was going on.
He kept walking slowly,
slowly down towards us.
And I think that was the
point where we actually
couldn't bear it any longer, and
actually called out his name.
And at that moment,
the pace picks up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
MALE SPEAKER 2:
And he was just so,
so excited, because we were.
[INAUDIBLE]
MALE SPEAKER 1 : It it's
just an incredible reunion.
Whether we were human or he was
animal was totally irrelevant.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh my god.
To me, that is one of the
most joyful films ever.
It still brings
tears to my eyes--
Oh my gosh, me too.
--[INAUDIBLE] times
since I've seen it.
And I just have to
say, I rest my case.
Exactly.
Anyone who doubts the emotional
and loving capacity of animals.
Of animals.
After everything we have done
to them and their environment--
Yes.
---to still show up with a
completely open heart for us.
-Yes.
-Well, OK.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
That is-- and you have a
personal lion story too.
Well, I have many lion stories,
but there's one I would like
to share, because as we just
witnessed, the great love--
and I'm getting a little
[INAUDIBLE] worked
up over that precious moment--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
---as I think we all should.
But we do identify
lions with courage.
We identify lions with heart,
with so many of those words
to have become over used.
But I would invite you
to take it a step deeper
and allow lions to share a more
sacred meaning of what it means
to be courageous, what
it means to be loving,
and what it means
to be prideful.
And from the level of
the heart and the soul,
what lions teach us
is, as the beings
who are the top of the
mountain, the ones who watch
over all beings
in their kingdom,
they are the great
beings of courage.
And courage to me, through my
life with working with animals,
has always been courage is
not getting rid of fear.
Courage, as lions know courage,
is courage to look fear
in the face.
And who is this?
This is a most magnificent
white lion from the Timbavati
area of South Africa.
This particular
lion in this photo
is demonstrating the
majestic lion quality.
I'd like to tell you that this
beautiful lion had this photo
taken as he was released
from a hunting camp,
where he spent his entire life.
He had never been out
of a dark caged area.
Really?
He was raised to be part
of the hunting trade.
And this photo was
taken when he was
rescued, and stepped
onto real ground
for the first time in his life.
And he was 11 years old.
REGINA MEREDITH: Oh my god.
That-- that's-- look
at his eyes, his face.
LINDA BENDER: This is
the face of courage.
REGINA MEREDITH: Oh my gosh.
It's just so powerful,
overwhelmingly powerful.
Thank you for
sharing that story.
And there are a lot
of others like him
that are living that
same kind of existence.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Not allowed to roam
their own land anymore.
And this is the only
place in the world
that these sacred lions
have ever, ever lived.
And the shamans, the
indigenous people,
have wonderful sacred stories
about them as the star beings--
and have many, many, many sacred
stories about those beings.
As connected to other star
systems that have come here--
LINDA BENDER: Come here.
---for a particular teaching.
Yes.
Yes, to help humanity.
And some believe, and the
indigenous people in particular
believe, that if at some
point the white lions
leave the face of
the earth, the future
is very dark for all of us.
So people are working very
hard to have this not happen.
Yes.
Thank you.
Now, what I'd like to do is
after all that-- so it's all
so powerful, so emotional--
is turn our conversation
to something equally
as emotional,
and that is our dear little
pets-- the domesticated ones
that are no longer
in the wild, that
live alongside us, whom you
have dealt with for a lifetime.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
And I would like to start
out by finding-- maybe we'll
start at the beginning with
talking about some more
challenging aspects of having
dealt with all of us bringing
our little broken
animals to you as a vet
when you can talk with them
and communicate in this way.
Yes.
I particularly love when
people bring in injured birds,
injured wildlife.
And then they apologize for it.
And I give them
my little tutorial
about please don't do that.
We need people like you.
You're really brave
and wonderful.
And oh gosh, there's
so many stories.
But the ones I find
the hardest are still
are people when they bring
their pets in for euthanasia.
Yes, that is a topic
I wanted to spend
some time on that is a very
difficult topic for everyone.
It is.
And so many people have pets--
as I say, companion animals.
So many people
have dogs and cats.
And those dogs and
cats, you know,
dogs and cats used
to be outside.
Dogs used to be
out in dog houses.
Not anymore.
They're not only in our
homes, they're in our beds.
Right.
You know, they're
not Fido anymore.
They're given names as
children would be given names.
-Yeah, like Eric.
-Eric.
[LAUGHS]
-Yes.
-Right.
-Patty, Susan, whatever.
REGINA MEREDITH:
Yeah, that is true.
So these are dearly
beloved family members.
And when their lives
come toward the end,
this is often as
difficult-- how to handle
these situations, as it is with
any other human family member.
And there's so much
pain involved in it.
There is.
And it's such a
confused-- I mean--
LINDA BENDER: It is.
---I've gone through the passing
of our dog Finbar recently,
which I'll share
that story with you.
But many years prior, I
dealt with my first real,
I mean, soul mate dog.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
I've had many dogs I love.
I've had them my whole life.
But this one, named Sugar Bear,
who was a [INAUDIBLE] mix,
we were just bound together.
And through a circumstance
that occurred, she aged.
And through some
stress that happened
in my life, which transferred
to her, she developed cancer.
And of course, I did the
last-minute lifesaving
operation, had it done.
I just couldn't
bear to let her go.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
And it only bought her an
extra couple weeks at most.
And the vet told me, now, if
you see her gums go white,
and she starts becoming weak,
there's nothing more we can do.
She's having internal
hemorrhaging.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
-So that day did come.
And they said, you might
want to bring her in, then,
and no have her go
through that suffering.
Well, I hadn't dealt with
anything like this before.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
I did take her in.
But I stopped at the park
first, and let her out
of the car-- she could barely
even get out-- just to see
if she'd chase the
squirrels, which
was her favorite thing to do.
I thought if she won't chase
the squirrels, it's really over.
I was just looking for
intervention of some kind.
Yes.
And so when I took her
in, I couldn't bear it.
And they said, I
don't think you want
to be here when this happens.
And this was a long time ago.
LINDA BENDER: Long time ago.
And they took her.
And she turned back
and looked at me.
And that's the most
haunting, horrible moment.
I have never gotten
over it in my lifetime.
I wasn't with her.
Right.
Yes.
-This is not uncommon.
-No.
And you still have
that vision of leaving.
Yes.
And this is our beloved Finbar.
Finbar just died
about five weeks ago.
He was an older fellow, but he
looked that beautiful right up
to the very, very end.
And this is one of
those situations
where after Sugar
Bear, I decided
I didn't want to do that again.
-Yes.
And so we let him go through
kind of the normal process,
but we kept intervening.
Thousands of dollars
later, IVs, staying
at the vet's office
for days at a time,
did not really buy him time.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
He was trying to crawl out to
a little area under the deck,
and be in the dirt
by himself, and go.
But we didn't know.
That brings up all
these questions.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
When do you really listen?
When should we have
known that Finbar just--
we needed to leave him alone?
-Right.
Right.
Well, unfortunately, there
is not a simple answer
to this question.
But once again, I come back
to a life of heart connection
to animals.
And I believe, and I've often
advised this to people who
say to me, when will I know?
When will I know?
And I often say to people-- I
look deeply into them so they
really hear from their hearts.
And I say, you will know if you
pay attention and you listen.
Or if you don't go into fear
and let that override you.
Listen to the heart
connection from your animal.
And there will be signs.
You know, there are
the usual signs.
You know, not eating as much.
They're the basic things.
Well, this was way
past all the signs.
Right.
He had those.
And he hadn't
been really eating.
We'd been feeding him
with a turkey baster,
little protein shakes
just to keep him alive.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
Right.
And it wasn't-- I mean,
I look back and think,
what an undignified
thing to put him through.
Right.
So we go through all
those medical signals.
And then there's still that
time when they may be lingering.
And I do believe that
animals, especially dogs
and that loving,
loving connection,
and that bond that is so
close with their owner,
they want so much to please.
And they want to stay--
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
---because they see
that you need them.
And that's the
confusing point, where
you keep trying to save them.
We keep trying to save
them, and they perhaps--
you know, they, in my
experience-- animals live
in a connection that is more
connected to the universal
connectedness than humans.
Yes, by far.
So I think they're
slightly more tuned in.
Animals experience fear.
Don't get me wrong.
But I don't think that they
are as afraid to let go.
And their main concern
is our well being.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
So we need to do our
part to help them along.
So in a situation
like this, which other
people have been through--
-A lot of them.
---he's an older dog.
He stopped eating.
-Yes.
He's seems to be in pain now.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
You know?
LINDA BENDER: Right.
What do you do?
You just [INAUDIBLE]?
You can cut back
on the heroics.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
Cut back on the heroics.
And I have been-- for someone
who knows what I know,
I've been one to
push too far as well.
And then I'm reminded,
no, this is not about me.
REGINA MEREDITH: Right.
It is about this being and
the quality of their life.
So we need to stop the
heroics to the extent we do.
And you're right.
When he hadn't eaten for
a week, then two weeks,
I mean, that's a hint.
LINDA BENDER: Right.
He's done.
And there are two things that
I would like to bring up.
One is how we address the
situation of when we do
need to help that process
along with euthanasia.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And also, you know, what we
can do to learn from animals
about the process
of dying-- you know,
they, unfortunately, don't
live as long as we do--
and what they're trying to teach
us about that dying process.
-For sure.
-Yeah.
And I learned-- I
could share a story--
REGINA MEREDITH: Please
do, because you had--
---of my dog Pepper.
-Pepper.
And Pepper's only been
gone about six months.
Yes.
And Pepper was one of my
dearest, dearest friends,
and still is.
We have a picture of
you and Pepper together.
Yes.
But Pepper was-- again, he
found me many, many years ago.
But he had a history
of autoimmune problems.
So I worked with
that over the years.
And it's a question of what I
can fix and what I can't fix,
using all different
types of methods,
traditional and alternative,
diet, all those things,
to keep your animal healthy.
And so Pepper, as he advanced in
years, had a series of issues.
And in the last year of his
life, I got up one morning.
And instead of him greeting
me at the food dish,
he was completely
flat on his side.
I thought, oh my god,
he wasn't moving.
I thought he was dead.
I ran over, felt this heart.
He was still barely breathing.
And I thought, I don't
know what's going on.
This is a critical situation.
Should I just leave him?
Should I grab him, throw him in
the car, get him to the clinic
quickly?
I chose-- in my pajamas, lifted
him up, put him in my car,
got him to the clinic quickly.
And in that case, it was
the wise thing to do.
I did go for it.
I used my intuition.
It turned out he had a tumor in
his spleen that had ruptured,
so he was bleeding out.
We quickly got him in the OR.
Of course, I didn't
do any of this.
Right.
Your hands might
have been unsteady.
But a dear friend did bring
him back, and he was fine.
He was good as new.
He went through a series
of other critical issues.
So again, when do we know?
But in the end, Pepper went
downhill fairly quickly.
I ran a few diagnostics on him.
We couldn't figure
out what was wrong.
I then looked at Pepper.
Pepper looked at me.
I knew I could no longer keep
this body going, nor could he.
He indicated
through me listening
that his body was wearing out.
The important thing I did
with him was completely
go out of a different
mode of thinking into how
can I make you comfortable.
Yes.
I stayed with him.
We hugged.
He used to love
to tuck his head.
We just clicked into
that mode of how
can we make the end better.
And he did die in my arms.
And now, like you
and your last case,
when I look back at
Pepper, and I remember,
I do think of that end moment.
But I have tremendous
consolation knowing
that I was there with him.
Yes, the end moments
are hard when you
allow it to happen naturally.
Euthanasia is
less-- emotionally,
a very traumatic decision, but
it is less difficult to watch
than it is when you see Pepper,
or in this case, Finbar, die
naturally.
-Yes.
But as you say--
So many people, loving
their animals so much,
find it too difficult
to go to the vet
when they know
intervention is needed.
And what I would
like people to know
is that animal needs
you at that moment
more than any other
time in its life,
and that it isn't about you.
You need to rally to
be with your animal
during that last moment at the
clinic, when your animal does
require euthanasia.
Be there, holding your pet.
And if you cannot,
there are others
who might be able to step in.
Before we get to that part,
which I think is really--
you have another amazing
story about that.
Is it a matter of when
they're in too much pain?
What is the determining
factor of when
you let it take its own course
versus when intervention
might be a good thing?
Well, as you just
mentioned, pain.
REGINA MEREDITH: Pain, yeah.
Excruciating pain.
Pain is huge.
And think of your
human loved ones.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yeah.
You know?
We don't want to see
our loved ones in pain.
And then when you have
communicated with animals that
are in extreme pain,
and that have been
brought in for
euthanasia, are they,
like-- are they open to this?
Absolutely.
REGINA MEREDITH: They are.
OK.
-I do believe they are.
I do believe they are.
Yes.
-OK.
You know, all beings
want to stay alive.
They want to thrive.
Animals in pain are quite ready.
As I believe are humans.
Are humans.
Humans are too.
LINDA BENDER: Yeah.
Now, you have a story
about a woman named Jean.
And this gets us back
to the euthanasia.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Right.
Again, I was giving
a talk one day.
And a woman came
up to me afterward.
And she was quite emotional.
And she said, I don't know
how you do what you do.
How do you do what you do?
I love animals.
I want to help.
It hurts too much.
I just lost my dog.
I could barely stand being
there during the euthanasia.
She said, I don't
know what I can do.
I just am breaking down.
So I told her a wonderful story.
I said, well, first of
all, why I do what I do.
I'll give you a quick story.
And I really wanted to cheer her
up, because I said, all right.
For the past five years,
I teach young people.
I teach high school students.
And I teach them
about the environment,
about all sorts of things.
And I work my magic into
animals and the environment.
So I was heading to a class
one morning, leaving my home,
and I had to stop
by the Apple Store
and pick up some equipment
to use for my talk,
so I was in a bit of a hurry.
Went down to the end of
my street, turned right.
And as I entered a
slightly bigger street,
I saw this lump of feathers
on the side of the road,
almost getting a little
too close to the road.
So of course, as I
usually do, or always do,
I stopped my car in
the middle of the road,
opened the door wide to
try to block the traffic.
And I dashed across
the road, and there,
in a hump on the road, was
this enormous turkey vulture.
Now, how often do we
see turkey vultures?
They're a large
lump of feathers.
Obviously in distress.
Was about to get onto the road,
and unfortunately, be hit.
So I dashed over.
Thought, what am I going to do?
Reached down, grabbed
this enormous turkey
vulture in my arms.
It was a female.
You could tell by the markings.
And she let me pick her up.
So I thought, OK.
Great.
What are we going to do now?
So I marched over to
my car, managed to open
the car door with my foot.
Turkey vulture and I got
in my Prius, shut the door,
thought, what are
we going to do?
I put her in the passenger seat.
We dashed over to
the Apple Store.
I parked and I said, don't move.
[LAUGHTER]
Like she could fly away, right?
She was listening.
I went into the Apple Store,
got my buddies to help me.
And I said, I gotta go.
I've gotta go.
I've got this enormous
bird in my car, tada tada.
So he said, I'll help you out.
We dashed out to
the parking lot.
I turned around, and not only
was my one Apple employee
friend there, but there was
a string of about 20 others
all wanting to see.
Got in the car.
There was my turkey vulture.
What I did was drive
her over to a friend's
rescue and rehab facility.
She was there, luckily.
We put the vulture in
the cage, because there
was no immediate
sign of acute trauma.
I said, let's leave her here.
I'll be back later tonight.
So I went up on my day.
She called me and
said, I think we're OK.
OK, I said.
I can't get over till 9 o'clock.
I said, can we wait
till the morning?
She said, I think we can.
First thing the next morning,
she rang me and said, Linda,
get over here as
fast as you can.
We have got to let this bird
go because if not, she's
going to break my cage.
I dashed over there.
There she was.
Whatever was wrong was--
Right.
---no longer wrong.
-Was right.
And she was fierce.
So I went over and I opened
this enormous wire door.
And she stepped
out so gracefully.
And she righted her body
and looked at me straight
in the eyes, and a thank you.
And then she turned and
flew up into the trees.
Now, I don't know if you've ever
seen a turkey vulture wingspan.
REGINA MEREDITH:
In California, we
have them all around our house.
I see them all the time.
LINDA BENDER: 7 foot huge.
It took my breath away--
-Yes.
---as I watched her
fly up into the trees,
having a second chance at life.
That's why I do what I do.
Second chance at life.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
Now Jean--
LINDA BENDER: So I told Jean--
Yeah.
Jean listened to the story.
And I said, you know, there
are a lot of things you can do,
Jean.
I know you love dogs.
I know you want to honor
the dog you just lost.
Why don't you call
a few vet clinics,
see what you can
do to volunteer.
About two months later, I
got a phone call from Jean.
She was ecstatic.
She said, Linda, I
couldn't wait to tell you.
I am now on call volunteering
when people cannot
face holding their
animals when they're about
to be put to sleep.
I go.
I comfort that animal.
That is just so beautiful.
Yeah.
And that is her mission,
and that's her [INAUDIBLE].
And any of us can do that?
Any of us can do that.
To hold that energy
for a little animal
so they don't go
out on their own.
-Right.
-Oh, I just love that.
And every time she does
it, it honors her dog.
-Yes.
-Yeah.
Yeah.
I was just thinking
of something
when you were talking
about that turkey
vulture part of the story.
And one day, I was
contemplating something.
It was a deeper
question, and I was
really looking for an
answer and didn't have it.
I was looking for a sign about
something, whether to take
action on something.
Yes.
And as I was driving
down our lane,
this turkey vulture came
out and flew-- I mean,
it felt like it was 3
feet from the window.
It might have been 6 feet.
It was very close.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
And he had picked up a
snake, which was dangling
in his mouth, and flew right
in front of my windshield
with this snake.
Oh my.
And because of the
nature of the question,
I knew exactly what that meant.
And so the thing-- I mean, that
was just an amazing experience.
But that brings us to
the psychic part of it.
Right.
We only have a
few minutes left.
Right.
Now, some of us have learned
how to develop connections
with spirit guides, whatever
you want to call it,
all these different
forces around us.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
And we learned how
to open and listen.
Is it basically the
same process if we
want to connect with our pets?
Same intention, same process?
It totally is.
And I always say to people,
I've been a meditator
for many, many, many years.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
If there's one thing you want
to do to make your life better,
to tune into not only yourself,
but all life around you,
it's meditation.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And with animals, whether they
be wild animals or companion
animals, it's so much about
listening and opening,
and again, seeing
that invitation
that is always there for those
who are willing to respond.
The other thing I
find with animals
and messages, two things.
One is people cling
to an animal totem.
I believe that all
animals are totems.
And so don't
disregard if an animal
that you don't know
familiarly as a totem
comes to you in some way.
Listen.
Always be willing
to listen to what
any animal is bringing to us.
And I believe that
it isn't necessarily
the animal specifically
who was doing that.
I believe it is the
workings of the universe--
even other humans on the
other side using animals.
An animal may be doing
something, crossing your path,
not even necessarily
aware, but its presence is
guided there by higher forces.
-Yes.
I couldn't agree more.
Thank you so much for that.
-Yes.
And meanwhile, we have just
a couple minutes left now,
I want to find out
about the project.
I mean, Rupert Sheldrake
has come to-- is
in support of your work.
And you're writing
this new book.
He's actually putting
an endorsement,
which is unheard of.
Rupert doesn't endorse.
But it just shows the
power of your work.
Thank you.
And he's done that beautiful
work with animals himself.
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
So now you have a new effort,
and you would like people
to send their stories into you.
Can you speak about it
just for a minute or so?
Yes, sure.
Rupert Sheldrake is definitely
one of my all-time heroes.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
He has done an amazing
amount of research
on dogs, cats,
animals, and their,
quote, "unexplained behaviors."
What I have put together,
and he has helped me with,
is a venture to
create a database.
So I would like everyone who
has a wonderful companion animal
story or any-- even a wildlife,
but particularly dogs and cats,
to email me stories about
unexplained powers of animals.
Little psychic
connections and--
LINDA BENDER: Yes.
-Yes.
-Wonderful.
All those things
because I know very
few people who don't have them.
REGINA MEREDITH: Yes.
And really powerful ones,
we're going to put together.
We're going to
document all this.
And I am hoping to, at
a later date, pool this,
and some of this will be
put out to be published.
So it's very exciting.
So if you can all email me--
Yes, and I'll
give them the URL--
---your wonderful stories.
---in just a second.
And thank you so much.
I'm so sorry we're out
of time, because we
could talk for another hour.
I could keep going.
I love hearing these stories.
Thank you so much, Linda, for
the incredibly beautiful work
you do.
-I'm privileged to be here.
Thank you.
To connect with
Linda's work, and ways
to become involved with
the animal kingdom,
you can go to lindabender.org.
To become involved in the
project she was just speaking
about, that one with
Rupert Sheldrake,
you're invited to send
your unique animal
stories to
lb.powersofanimals@gmail.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]